So we learn about all these hooks.
Now let's see what they actually do in the server element component.
Does the combo.
I will choose for demo purposes.
We already get the constructor and ngi on it.
So in the constructor I will simply lock constructor called so that we can see when this happens in
the console and I'll do the same for N-G on in it but of course you're old to Engy on in that call of
course I will add yabber Hogestyn to.
But let's start with these two.
And if we reload the application your we see right at the top constructor called ngi on in a cold.
And for every new server we add we see this again of course because a new instance of this component
was created and therefore all these hooks are executed again because it's a brand new instance doesn't
have anything in common besides the class it was created of with the first instance of that component
here.
So that is constructor and engine in it.
Now I told you that ngi on change is what run first.
So let's implement energy changes.
And this would be enough though it is a good practice to implement the on changes interface to and that
is true for all hooks implementing the method alone will do the trick but it is a good practice to be
very explicit about which interfaces your component users or which methods you component will have.
So they were implementing these interfaces is a really good practice.
It's very clear in which methods may be called in your component and which methods you won't have.
Now here we're getting a lot of imports which is why I will split this up.
And as you can already see you have to import all these interfaces on it and on changes.
So engine changes runs first as I told you.
So let's say ngi on change this year and this year actually receives an argument.
It's the only hook that does.
Here we receive a change his argument which is of type simple changes which also needs to be imported
from an English coord.
So I would simply log changes here so that we can have a look at it and see what's inside.
So let's save this.
And here are the top again we see constructor called ngi on change is called.
As mentioned before and on in it and then we see the simple changes.
That's an object which has an element which is of type simple change and element of course is our bound
property here.
It's this property name that's the name we see reflected here.
And then angler's simply gives us some information.
What's the current value.
Well that's the object with just a test.
Test server and of type server is just the first change.
Yes it is we just initialized it.
And what's the previous value.
There is no value because we didn't.
Well we didn't change this before.
Now to see that engine changes actually gets fired more than once.
I'll add something to this app just for demo purposes.
I'll add a button change first element to my app component template above.
There's list of server elements give it some bootstrap styling here but that's not really important.
More important give it a click listener on change first would be a name you could use.
And then in the upcoming one time profile I went to church changed the name of the first element.
Now for days I also need to change the way past this element to the server component.
Right now we receive the full element default object and that will leave us here for demo purposes for
sort of you that can reference this code.
But now I only expect to get the name because the name is the only thing I'm outputting here anyways
so I'm duplicating this and I will comment out the old code.
And now we only output the name because all the other element information was projected y energy content
into this element anyways into this component.
So we only get the name now.
This name will simply be a string we added input so that it can be bound from outside.
And we're outputting name here.
So an app component.
When we loop fruiterers I will now actually bind to name 2 and I will bind to server element name and
you wouldn't need to bind server element here anymore because that is not.
But I will leave it here for reference.
So this is now how we pass the data.
We passed the name in the combo Antibes could file here in onchange first.
I will now EXit my server elements the first element and therefore this will fail if we were to empty
disarray and set to name to changed.
So again I did these changes so that we can really see when engine changes gets fired and we couldn't
use the element as an object because objects are reference types so we passed the object via input.
Therefore both properties in the server element component.
This one here and the object in the array of server elements here in the component they both point to
the same place and memory.
And therefore if we changed the name there it will update in the child component in the server element
component but it will not trigger engine changes because technically the property were binding to use
here with an input that didn't change the value of that didn't change.
It's still the same object in memory.
So it somebody does difference between reference and primitive lives and you should look this up if
that's all brand new to you.
It's a javascript concept has nothing to do with typescript or angular.
So that is why now I'm binding to a primitive with name which is just a string and therefore engine
changes should get fired again if I click to change first element button.
Let's do that.
And indeed it does.
Note that constructor and engine in it weren't called but engine change this was.
And here now we also see the previous value and the new value and therefore this could be interesting
to you if you want to react to any changes and then do something with the old world values story.
Before it gets dumped or something like that.
That's Engy on changes.
We get a couple of our hooks so let's move on.
Besides Engy on changes and Engy on it we get.
Do check.
And as I said this also needs to be imported from an Anglo core.
This will give us a method which is executed on every change detection run.
So Engy do check is the method we need for this.
And here we can simply console log do.
And we do check called.
So let's see when this gets cold if this reloads see it gets called right at the beginning.
Then one more time here.
But that is only because we're running in development mode.
They're angular has one extra change detection cycle but it also gets called if Eclectus partners you
can see and if I click this button a couple of times here.
So and did you check as I told you gets called EVER angler checks for any changes and there are a couple
of triggers which triggered this Meffert and event was called by clicking or a promise gave us back
some data.
So a lot of triggers for Engy do check.
So that is not something where you want to run amazingly powerful code because that would cost you a
lot of performance.
But the fact that change texture runs as often as it does on its own is not a problem.
And this can be a great hook if you want to check if you do need to change something manually because
angler didn't pick it up or something like that.
So the next hook is ofter content in that there's needs to be imported from an angle or core to this
interface.
And with that we need to implement Angi ofter content in it.
Now let's call this console log Angi of our content in it cold.
If we do this here you will see that here it is there it is called After do check and it is called only
once because it doesn't get let's again remember content is that thing we project it into this free
energy content.
So this year will be our content in the end.
Let's move on.
The next book then is and this is getting long here so I will split this up over multiple lines to all
these interfaces I'm implementing.
So the next book will be after content checked like this does also needs to be imported from an Anglo
core and it requires us to implement a method Engy of the content checked.
And well now I'm just going to copy the code from off the content in it and replace it with checked
if we save this and have a look at it.
You see here it is called and here it is called again after do check which makes sense because it is
called after each change detection cycle.
Well now I'm going to copy this to here.
And also I will add two new interfaces.
The first one being after the you in it and then after the you checked both need to be imported from
an Anglo core to now does require me to have Engy after viewing it as an effort and energy after the
checked and I will replace the text here in the console log.
So that we can see when these get called.
So if we lock as you see it happens after the content has been checked well and with dad we're almost
at the end.
The remaining pieces and you on the stroy and on the stroy is called well right before this gets destroyed
this component gets destroyed.
So let's edit here on the implements list on the interface list I should say and make sure to add the
import from an English core and then you need to implement ngi on this.
Troy here and here will say Angi on destroy code.
Now to be able to actually see those being destroyed I will add a new button button.
Destroy first component and give it a class of buttons and Button danger to make a direct and here at
a click Lisner on destroy.
First I will copy that add my method you're in.
Whoops.
Just on the try first of course.
Just a name we'll add it here to my types of code and there is something called Server elements to splice
Meffert splicing at the first element and then just one element therefore removing it.
So with this we should now see all the hooks called view checked and so on.
And if I destroy the component you see Angie on the strike was called because we removed it from the
array.
Therefore Engy forward Rieu ran and didn't render this first element because it was removed.
Therefore it was removed from the dorm.
Hence this component was called.
So these are all the lifecycle hooks in action.
You really need to use all of them but some of them can be very helpful for your application to hook
into a specific piece a specific face and run your code.